this is primetime primetime from New
York Diane Sawyer
good evening Sam is away tonight last
November we brought you our four-month
investigation of three television
ministries well tonight you're going to
see those ministers again and hear
what's happened since our report as we
said at the time the United States was
founded on the principle of religious
liberty the laws give wide latitude to
religious institutions here even ones
that use the public Airways to raise tax
free funds there's very little
monitoring of what they broadcast and
the topic is too hot for Congress to
handle so primetime called through bank
transactions property records databases
traveled with hidden cameras from Dallas
to the banks of Oklahoma to Poland and
Haiti we still want to make it clear
that we are in no way questioning faith
or religious beliefs of any kind in fact
many of the people who helped in this
investigation are devout members of
religious organizations but they believe
it's important to know the facts so we
took this close look at three ministries
to see if the things being said and
implied on the air were true we began
with a man best known as a healer WV
grant it's up to you the word said you
can have what you say and what you think
as a man thinketh so is a hallelujah WV
grant is an old-fashioned second
generation singing revival preacher
Oh grant is a faith healer who appears
on TV all across the country
big parable for chica Babu and his
followers traveled miles to see him and
give a lot of money because they
believed in his miracles
better leave on won't you stand up they
see grant raising people out of their
wheelchairs
throws away their canes
you can even make a stunted leg grow in
a matter of seconds
grant says it's God who tells him the
names to call out of the audience and
what illnesses have to be healed
Paulie godhood as long as you live
you'll never see a speech therapist
again we wanted to know more about
grants miracles and his money so we
decided to begin by taking hidden
cameras into film a week of his services
we discovered that before every service
granted his associates circulate
informally among the friends and family
of the sick making notes or even
casually interviewing the people who
will later be healed we saw grant gather
information on more than 35 people he
later seemed to identify by revelation
from God but if pre-interviews explained
the revelations what explains the
healing we observed that grant uses a
series of artful deceptions and tricks
for example I'm so grant walk up to this
man during the service and hold up his
cane
who healed him and told him to run down
the aisle
the crowd thunders applause but let's
look at that again grant isn't grabbing
the cane of the man he's grabbing the
cane of the woman in the next seat
outside the man told us his problem was
with his arm he had never had any
trouble walking and when we questioned
the people grant had lifted out of
wheelchairs everyone we talked to said
they could walk all along could you walk
at all before you hare so we wondered
why don't they speak up why don't they
say wait a minute I know how you know my
name no they will do that these two
people asked that their identities be
hidden including their voices though the
words are all their own they worked for
grant knew him very well and say he
knows that religious people want to
preserve the illusion and won't give him
away so this little boy who is in fact
confined to a wheelchair for life left
the service without any miracles offered
for him and there's something else we
want to show you here's what happened
when grant called up this woman her name
is Diane dougherty grant hadn't talked
to her but before the service he had
talked to this woman her friend Kelly
Sutherland he didn't know that both of
these women worked for prime time she
been searched she's with the disc last
year and has been in pain ever since
when she lives something and she was
lifting a suitcase but when grant call
Diane up it seemed the information had
just come into his head this is this is
not in line the Resta in fact Diane
doesn't have back pain she said this
because we'd noticed in every service
grant amazed the crowd when he detected
that someone with back pain
and one leg shorter than the other sure
enough he decided Diane had the problem
to letting on this side because of the
slit this was a little bit shorter than
laying on that side ever we were about
to see an old magician's trick as Diane
sits down grabs her shoe pulls out the
heel of the shoe to make the leg look
longer as he prays he slowly pushes the
heel of the shoe back in giving the
illusion that the short leg has grown
every miracle means money for grant we
watched thousands of people people with
cancer leukemia elderly on fixed incomes
line up to give money sources say the
ministry takes in six to ten million
dollars a year much of which grant takes
out for himself
I just want to make sure that I
understand this correctly though over
the years he has pocketed as his
personal spending money then hundreds of
hundreds of thousands of dollars yes
what would he do with this money is he a
big spender would be nothing for him to
spend fifteen hundred dollars for a suit
I knew of one instance where there was a
Mercedes bought in Fort Lauderdale
Florida for eighty four thousand dollars
did he pay in cash good hey money and
here is the million dollar mansion where
the grants now live just one of several
properties his ministry owns and even
his grant was sending out this
fundraising letter one Christmas begging
followers for money saying he had to
borrow 99 dollars according to documents
obtained by prime time he was buying his
second Ferrari a 1990 model that lists
at one hundred and five thousand dollars
faith-healing isn't the only way grant
gets followers to give money for decades
he's touched their hearts with his
televised Appeals for food and clothes
for the orphans of Haiti this is an
actual child in our Royal Palms
orphanage in port-au-prince Haiti this
is not a beautiful child a beautiful
child who by the way isn't even Haitian
in
at services associate pastor Ross
Collette tells how grant supports 3500
children sixty-four orphanages in Haiti
Collette practically moves people to
tears with his story of the saintly
woman who runs one of grants orphanages
a woman they call mommy but we wondered
how mommy could have made that
confession this is our cushaw Haiti and
this is mommy's grave she's been dead
for five years the orphanage still
exists full of children who do need
money food and clothes but how much does
grant give two of the doctors who now
run the orphanage told us grant doesn't
give them a dime
you never said any money so you get no
money from Roman grant he doesn't come
here yeah he does nothing for your
children but you're really saying
Reverend grant is a fraud do we we yes
but what about those 64 other orphanages
grant claims in Haiti those 3500
children or the full time American
missionary he claims their brother Bob
Jones about 17 they live here meet
brother Bob Jones he didn't know we were
filming with hidden cameras we told him
we worked for people trying to start a
new TV ministry in the States
Jones quickly confirmed he doesn't
oversee any 64 orphanages just one for
17 children whom he does seem to love
and care for this is one little boy this
John's told us grant does sent a couple
of thousand dollars a month to Haiti but
that grant is just one of the
evangelists claiming Jones orphanage and
said if we liked we could claim it too
in Dallas fix you up a sign on a canvas
rolling out
welcome to Haiti put your name under
whatever you want then we take these
kids name stand that your string you
sign out and put up then you're down it
back inside a couple kids on either side
of you and let's say we plan to use the
kids to raise a lot of money wanted to
keep 95% of it for ourselves
Jones would sign on let's say you sent
me $25 per month for each one of my
children and then you turn around and
you raise $500 for each child for that
month the thing of this way I look at it
is the 25 is the 25 of them that got
metallized and you didn't race I
wouldn't get so I'm happy with that now
this what a little piece of it but the
law says you can't mislead people about
the money you raise and where it goes
it's the kind of thing that put Jim
Baker in jail Jim Baker he wouldn't is
let it be in a hat right but he did you
know he didn't handle it right Jones
told us the way to handle it is sent him
all the money we raised and he'd find a
way to send back to us what we agree on
a kind of laundering scheme now when you
said it to me how I would yeah yeah he
tended me back as what I just put IV far
they have cover cosmic state and finally
Jones offered another service he'll
provide those heart-tugging photographs
evangelist used to make viewers think
they alone are getting to sponsor an
individual child
everybody wants a real core the skinnier
the child is and the other hopefully you
making five any babies picture I mean
that was a teaching just little bit
which whole grant would have as many as
50 sponsors for one photograph so we
asked how much he'd get for Haiti in a
month and we were told in one month
for example three hundred and fifty
thousand dollars in a month when in fact
he was only sending down to the fourth
Oh since grant had refused an interview
we tried to see him after a service
I'd like that dispatch emissions hating
particularly grant refused to give us
any answers and called out for his
lawyer who denounced us while grants
wife tried to block the camera lens it's
not of God it was you tell us what it
was about I can tell you what the
questions are you know there'll be no
questions tonight after our broadcast WV
grant lost some of his faith healing
followers but he's still on the air and
planning for Ray's around the country
also by the way we learned grant has
purchased a newer Mercedes and that he
has another home in Breckenridge
Colorado a five-story ski resort he
rents out for as much as six hundred
dollars a night what you're about to see
now is very different from our first
report as you'll recall we had heard
that Larry Lee had a sophisticated
ministry and we'd heard that some of his
multi-million dollar fundraising was
built on careful omissions careful
misrepresentations well it certainly
does cost a lot for Lee to run his TV
ministry with the high cost of airtime
and overhead our question was what kind
of appeals get the followers to send in
money and how truthful is Larry Lee
while he's on TV
destroy your life or your family or your
property Rory Lee's followers say he's
the next Billy Graham two years ago he
was tapped as the keynote speaker at the
National Religious broadcasters
convention another sign he's a star on
the horizon well I want to say to you my
good brother my dear sister I understand
that pain we built up at 11,000 member
congregation and a 15 million dollar
goal glass church outside Dallas but in
1990 he left the church to concentrate
solely on his TV ministry where he
raised money preaching that prayers
would be answered through donations to
God he calls it sowing the seed the best
time to sow is when your head and with
the aid of a courageous local pastor
Larry Lee is building the first spirit
filled Church in Auschwitz since the end
of World War two one of these big
fundraising campaigns was an emotional
appeal for the church Lee said he was
building at the site of the Nazi horror
Allen house which we're going there to
build a physical Church as well as
instruct the pastor for six weeks these
phone lines lit up taking donations for
the cause if you would like to make a
donation using your Visa or MasterCard
that's one what Lee didn't know was that
we had followed him undercover when he
went to Poland it turns out the church
at Auschwitz isn't Larry Lee's church at
all yeah no no no we only spent about an
hour at the church looked around nothing
else the church Treasury secretary told
us it was started two years ago by the
Polish Pentecostal community with money
raised entirely on their own until now
he did not leave a penny here in the
church that right now we're building it
then I'll switch Poland
you gave the clear impression on the air
that you were going over to build this
church mm-hmm in fact this church had
been underway for two years before you
ever your name even came up in it that's
right but before he left Poland Lee
finally did give the church a small
one-time donation of thirty thousand
dollars the head of the church told us
Lee said that was all he could give
though compared to what the Lee ministry
takes in every year $30,000 is pocket
change
we also Diane we talked about the fact
that we were raising money for the
Poland crusade we talked about the fact
that we were bringing the pastors and
their wife how much did that cost I
don't know to that I don't know exactly
we do cost $12,000 so that's a total of
$42,000 when you were taking in how much
is part of this campaign
yeah I'm not clear I'm not sure exactly
the numbers because we have copies so we
totally we obtained some of his bank
records which show that the amount he
gave in Poland was indeed way less than
his ministry often takes in in a day you
can see here the Larry Lee ministry took
in more than a million dollars in one
month
day after day you're taking an enormous
amounts of money you're taking it a
hundred eleven thousand dollars that's
one day seventeen thousand twenty-six
thousand forty five thousand a hundred
and twenty five thousand one day do you
think the people who scented money for
this church knew that you were going to
give this church a tiny fraction of what
you make in one day you know Diane we
are you mentioned the National Religious
broadcasters earlier we have the Ethicon
seal which is their ethics and financial
integrity commission when we apply for
this we submitted we submitted all of
how we raise finances where the money
goes how it goes we have an audit every
year everything that we do can we see it
sure but even after repeated requests
Lee never sent us the audit or figures
on donations to Poland his spokesman
told us he couldn't say whether more
money came in for Poland than Lee
donated because the money all went into
one general fund and how Larry Lee
to his own life after fire destroyed his
family's home but what about another of
Larry Lee's fundraising ploys a series
of tapes that Lee promoted for donations
which contained spiritual lessons he
learned when calamity struck him last
summer for a sacrificial investment of
$30 or more to the prayer ministry
throughout the summer last year Larry
Lee told viewers he'd lost everything he
had because his Tulsa house had burned
to the ground we've had plenty to where
praise God
ain't much but what we've got it's
honest we lost our furniture and we lost
our home and we lost most of our car
lose everything you had yeah well not
quite everything a Tulsa house burned
all right an insured house Lee had been
trying to sell for two years without
luck Lee says he had just moved his
things into it before the fire but Lee
didn't lose this house it's the 5.1 acre
estate outside Dallas where he lived for
six years and Lee didn't tell his
viewers about this you knew what you
were doing no ma'am you knew the
impression you were creating do you
think people knew that you were not
destitute homeless wiped out
we moved with all of our furniture and
everything we had last June so what was
Lee saying that there was nothing left
in that house in Dallas we were told
that you have a lot still there no
there's nothing there nothing take a
look at these photographs taken two days
after our interview with Lee the Dallas
house filled with furniture books family
photos
Lee's made and the nanny we're still
working there and not only that we
learned one month after the Tulsa house
burned
Larry Lee's ministry bought him another
house there a third house paid for in
cash my little girl she said daddy you
don't have to get me a car because we
probably don't have enough money let me
tell you something God's people will
always have enough money if when they're
hit by the devil they so the biggest
seed they can immediately after our
show aired the national religious
broadcasters announced that Lee was not
in compliance with its ever calm
standards and Lee announced that he was
taking himself off TV and wanted to
clear his name
well the NRB reviewed these records and
issued its findings last March the
findings say that from now on the money
Larry Lee raises from Poland will be put
into a separate account and so the NRB
has given Lee its approval once again
and last May Larry Lee went back on the
air you are now going to meet a man who
we calculated last year took in more
money that the income of Madonna and
Michael Jackson combined as we said
before it takes a lot of money to keep
one of those TV ministries on the air
but we've been told that making money
and marketing of what this man does best
insiders told us his organization is the
state-of-the-art factory for donations
all for the operations and bank accounts
of the Robert Tilton ministry and I
think something as though the Mets with
me they're messing with the apple of
God's eye this is Robert Tilton he had
the fastest growing ministry on
television last year you foul rotten
stinking devil I'm gonna beat you up you
double cut you to pieces when David
Jesus viewers are riveted by his
melodrama his quirky style oh don't go
there come oh good day yeah I love ya
and he parlays all of it into a high
tech Church in Dallas and more airtime
than almost any other televangelist oh
say yes Lord
Tilton takes in so much money he makes
other TV ministers look like amateurs
and I want you to make $1,000 validate
oh I know you probably don't have a
thousand dollars but ballot try to find
out how much money Tilton makes and you
discover the ministry is shrouded in
secrecy the pastor has bodyguards his
offices are sealed off with armed
security and surveillance cameras but
primetime obtained some of Tilton's
financial documents these are daily
deposits and based on these Tilton's
followers sent his ministry
conservatively 80 mil
in dollars a year tax-free and welcome
to Word of Faith Family Church Tilton's
televised service is an expensive
multimedia variety hour but for all his
flashy style Tilton insists he's still a
simple preacher who cares about the
sickness and suffering of his followers
bones go together so we decided to take
hidden cameras to see what we could
learn about Robert Tilton's fundraising
it led us first to the nerve center of
his ministry the company that organizes
his direct mail
it's called response media better than
Jim Moore is president of response media
he handles not only Tilton but a number
of big corporate accounts we told more
that we were media consultants for this
man Dallas minister Olli Anthony we
asked him to show us how to start a
big-money ministry like Tilton's
thousand free yeah we want to marry you
let us copy of X and get the name and
address now new names is the key
community just don't think it is we
learned that once people give you their
names it's easy to keep them on the hook
you mailed them something with a gimmick
in it first of all in the southern itam
init it gets her attention Tilton sends
out an avalanche of things he asks
viewers to send back to him Miracle
prayer Claus he promises to touch and
place upon an altar chords he says he'll
place on a wall of deliverance arrows
he'll use to take aim at a sufferers
needs a tracing place your hand there
and he'll put his hand there - there's
holy water from the River Jordan miracle
anointing oil though Moore said some of
the items come from that holy place
Taiwan
the letters accompanying the items are
written by ghost riders to pressure
followers to write back and make
donations to does it work people send
them in by the truckloads it's a great
marketing scheme there is a feeling of
obligation send it back and they do
usually when sent ago
I'll go ahead for $5 it just I'm not
sure exactly all the reasons why it
works but I could tell you for years
years it says it does and when the
letters arrived they're processed so the
company knows which fundraising appeals
you can use to squeeze followers for the
most donations take 5000 run them up his
demographic and play and create a
Profiles who their people are how many
people have cars that are so it's market
research not God who can tell Tilton
which appeals reach the richest donors
which illnesses create the most dollar
opportunities someone had a grope I just
saw growth being healed and Tilton
creates the impression that after he
pays for his overhead and all that
expensive airtime the money goes to good
works like these his missions around the
world but we tracked down five of
Tilton's so-called missions and we
calculate he spends more in a year on
Billboard's around Dallas than he does
on these five missions combined and
about this mission Tilton's orphanage in
Haiti well remember Bob Jones who told
us for just a few thousand a month we
could put up a sign and claim an entire
orphanage even if we weren't the only
contributor would you may wonder
whatever you want so even though his
magazine calls it the Robert Tilton
ministries Children's Home it's really
not Tilton's place at all which is why
government officials we spoke to in
Haiti hadn't heard of Tilton or his
orphan nothing from Robert Tilton yeah
and Tilton's marketing director made it
clear when it comes to money for
missions Tilton is very smart he's
careful not to say what donation goes
where so he can avoid again how Jim and
Tammy got caught taking it they could
have taken as much money as they wanted
to it never been in trouble yeah see
that's why so you'll advise funds to
sort of keep it nice Pacific well if you
can raise being a specific I always
recommend that isn't and children
refugees by hate driver never raise
money for specific project until you
never heard a TV preacher asking for
money like this before Robert Tilton as
I knew him was practicing to become a
Salesman that was his concept of success
with this man who wanted anonymity is
just one of several old friends of
Robert Tilton who talked to us
he remembers when they were in college
they would use drugs or get drunk and go
off to tent revivals as a kind of sport
and we'd be drunk and go down front fall
to our knees speak in tongues mmm Tilton
and his friends started developing
parody so-called Jesus raps of their own
oh dear God come into this young woman's
life Hill tonight she has a need to find
pasture Oh God
in the name of Jesus we believe in
prayer we believe in miracles I
personally thought I was a lot better at
it than he was
Tilton who never finished college admits
he was a drug user but says he was saved
when some people came to his house and
explained Christ
I had just changed I just fell in love
with everybody but he never tells
followers how he and his friends talked
about running preacher scams and cashing
in we said that when we graduated that
we would buy a good tent a dynamite
sound system a good Amen section and fly
around the country and get rich we sold
everything that we had on a ragged tit
and a big old truck and a travel trailer
and we headed out tell people about this
gospel of Jesus that was 1974 when
Tilton started out and by 1981 he had
hit the big time
how primetime has learned that for
several years Tilton courted a man news
accounts have tied to organized crime
and drug smuggling
Herman Beebe a financier whose banks
gave Tilton a 1.3 million dollar loan
though Tilton claims he never met the
man
and after Tilton got the money he got a
new image - a permanent way for his hair
plastic surgery and like his good buddy
Jim Baker a talent for tears on demand
he said those washing my face this
morning all the kids
so long and we were there one day with
hidden camera when he made it clear the
tears of his followers are good for the
TV pitch to all that going on I thought
I was coming there to really help people
and to minister to their needs
bill hardy left the Tilton ministry
after two years as a telephone prayer
minister taking calls from desperate
followers hardy showed us the phone
scripts which directed ministers to get
a minimum vow of 100 dollars from each
caller we truly became the McDonald's of
ministry we were selling our ministry
for money Lord spoken said bomb I'm
sending you the people have nothing and
his followers believed what Tilton says
about himself in the ministry magazine
that he only gets a salary set by an
independent firm and one perk a
parsonage but could this have been the
parsonage in SWANCC Rancho Santa Fe
California a multi-million dollar
Lakeview home with pool jacuzzis
thousands of dollars in furnishings a
four car garage for Tilton's Mercedes
it's now been sold but though the title
was in the name of Tilton's lawyer
Tilton lived here for more than two
years the house was paid for in cash or
is this the parsonage in Fort Lauderdale
Florida where Tilton bought a $132,000
boat this time he put the house in the
name of a holding company allegedly for
security but according to bank documents
its Tilton who owns it and tilton's
ministry built him yet another home in
Las Colinas Texas while renting him a
fourth home till it was finished for six
thousand dollars a month and take a look
at this
primetime obtained a document which
shows that although the ministry is a
corporation Tilton personally has access
to all its wealth almost as if it were a
sole proprietorship in his personal loan
application Tilton's bank says he has
one and a half million dollars in cash
and CDs he has access to fourteen
million dollars in Treasury bills
and real-estate bought at a cost of 40
million dollars that's an all 16 million
dollars in assets available to Tilton
and those are the ones he puts on the
list
there's only his board to hold him
accountable so who's on the board
Tilton his secretary and his wife God
gave me this truth he didn't send me the
rich fat cat to think they got it made
don't need God or pictures he sent me to
people that are beat-up they're hurting
but how much does Tilton really care
about the beat up and the hurting we
kept thinking about something the head
of the Direct Mail operation told us
that the mail doesn't go to Tilton it's
forwarded unopened to Tilton's bank and
toss up so the bank opens the followers
mail not to share the agony but to get
the money the bank opens the letter to
come back in and takes your money puts
in your account all we get is the paper
document and how much the person gave
and those items that people have prayed
over and sent in believing Robert Tilton
would touch them and pray over them to
well if some made it to Tilton there are
thousands that didn't we found them in
the garbage at the bank and the
marketing Research Center the angels of
God the prayer cords the arrows this
person wanted his aimed at getting a
real dad the tracing where Tilton said
he'd place his hand ripped up by letter
processors we found heartbreaking
appeals from followers and letters like
this one
it came with personal photographs for
Pastor Bob and a prayerful message it
also came with a $7000 pledge the money
probably made it to Tilton the prayers
went in the trash and in a moment new
information on Robert Tilton will tell
you what's happened to him since our
report first aired so what happened
after our report and after Robert Tilton
took to the air ways to denounce us
I'm hot look stupid but I ain't stupid
the day after our report Tilton flatly
denied that prayer requests are thrown
away before he sees them he said the
ones in our peace had been stolen and
made to look like trash cheap shot
total yellow journalism I mean in fact
Tilton insisted he had prayed over so
many letters had made him sick those
prayer request forms have ink on them
and all kinds of chemicals are laid on
top of those prayer requests so much
that the chemicals actually got into my
bloodstream begin to swell my
capillaries and I had two small strokes
in my brain that brought about some
numbness in my body
he said that's what's forced him to get
that plastic surgery yeah I had that my
eyes worked on to try to get the serious
bags out from under my eyes and how all
those chemicals had messed them up and
Tilton said he bought the mansion in
California and the retreat in Florida
and the big boat because after all the
praying he needed some rest so what I
never preached poverty you I said God
would provide you with the best and I'm
not supposed to I can tell you you can
have the best blind supposed to have
nothing get that religious garbage outta
your brain so this is what Tilton was
saying last November I lay my hands
personally on every prayer request that
comes in into the phone center our comes
in through the mail but four months
later here is Tilton in a videotaped
deposition with the Texas Attorney
General's Office which they recently
released to the press of her Tilton's
objection Boxey in it Tilton admits he
doesn't really pray over every prayer
request at all not all of them are the
original fairy please some Oh
our own a computer ran out with their
specific kinds of prayer that they want
me to pray so I don't with the actual
document of some of them and what
happened to the actual document so and
in her deposition Tilton's wife
acknowledged that Tilton so-called
personal letters were not handwritten by
him is the handwriting on the veil
pieces actually mr. Chilton Sandra no it
is is it part of a graphics program that
you have it's one of the artists and who
answers these letters asking for
spiritual guidance advice miracles not
Tilton nor his prayer ministers but
people hired by that data processing
center in Tulsa and this word of faith
specify what kind of training there we
see no an orphanage in Haiti the
people's names on there that run the
orphanages to support it if the idiots
are just read it also after our
broadcast Tilton attacked us for what we
said about his missions the ones he
implies are his own like this one here's
how he promotes it on his TV show wings
of mercy a center sponsored by Robert
Tilton ministries the promotion makes
you think this is Tilton Center but
listen to his deposition you know what
wings of Mercy is
no wonder since primetime has learned
that Tilton's contribution to that
mission is just 300 dollars a month and
what about something else
Tilton said in his deposition he claims
that his contribution to his mission in
Guatemala is 100 percent of their needs
G we're going to provide really percent
of the support that they needed to
maintain their operation so we checked
this out we spoke to the on-site
missionary in Guatemala who told us in
fact Tilton is only a partial sponsor
and the Guatemalan government has gone
public to say that Tilton and his
promotional material exaggerated his
contribution for personal gain the
beauty of his claim of a special
invitation and I've been invited to be
in the inauguration of all all the
celebrations and Wow
that's not true according to the
president spokesman for Nando Moniz well
know that the president has invited him
to attend the inauguration is by all
means false nor does he have any
relation with the government but we
cannot take action against a swindler of
this calibre yet we are going to take
this good news
of Jesus Christ around the world you get
to help make it happen through your
tithes and offerings and something else
about Tilton the missionary repeatedly
he tells his viewers that their
donations enable him to win souls around
the world and we totally Board of Faith
Ministries you the Family Church
underwrites totally this particular
evangelism unit Tilton tells followers
they finance Crusades and countries too
poor to pay themselves he's come all the
way from America so one time decided to
follow Robert Tilton to India this past
March you want the wave got tonight
well there was Tilton passing the
collection plates nightly if each of
these people gave just a few pennies
Tilton would get back hundreds of
thousands of dollars money taken from
the people he himself calls the poorest
people on earth
Tilton said please donate money please
donate money so everybody got
disappointed and then everybody
whispered this is not a crusade it's a
business and before we leave you we
wanted you to meet two people who
decided recently to speak out to confirm
Robert Tilton is not the devoted
minister he claims I never saw him
visiting the sick I never saw him
counseling I never saw him with anybody
from the congregation you know Connie
Cohn was the Tilton's personal secretary
in the early eighties
she and her husband were so devoted they
donated $30,000 to the church she says
she started out in all of Tilton until
she saw the real man up close
she says Tilton had a library filled
with get-rich-quick books which he even
used for his sermons though he told her
not to tell I saw some of the sermons
and some of the quotes from the books
it's like he takes some of the things
out of the book incorporates them into
the sermons and uses it as the Word of
God
hey I'm quoting to you what God said
they had a swimming pool place and lots
and lots of money
Brenda Reynolds also saw Tilton at home
she took care of his children for six
years and was head of housekeeping at
the ministry for two more she says mrs.
Tilton ran things at home and the
ministry and the two of them lived like
royalty oh yes she had diamond in furs
and I think here oppress you she had
cost at least a hundred bucks
and she had about 150 pair him same
thing and Brenda Reynolds also saw
something else
she says the ministry sent over boxes
and boxes of prayer requests to Tilton's
home for him to look at and pray over
but she says he didn't want them in the
house he had told me to just put them in
the garage when they bring them out did
you ever try to bring him in the house
well like I say I did one time what
happened then from then on well he just
told me to just put him in the garage
and they stay in the garage and they
stacked up in stacked up and I told my
said with it those are things that you
supposed to be praying over you know and
he told me said we'll just take him to
the trash thrown away I laid on top of
those prayer requests so much that the
chemicals actually got into my
bloodstream I know for a fact that he
did not pray over them and he that I
took him to the trash myself and I would
look at it and I would remember thinking
to myself what these people only knew
you know what they were doing he has got
to know inside that he's a phony that
he's taken people I think he has become
cynical and Connie Cohn a devout
Christian is speaking out because she
wants to urge people to follow the Bible
not she says false prophets like Robert
Tilton White's I just want everybody to
know that Bob Tilton is not
the only kind of Christian in this world
what he holds up as Christianity is
totally false and totally opposite of
what the Bible says you should know we
called Robert Tilton last week and his
attorney refused our request for an
on-camera interview a few other things
Robert Tilton is being sued by nine
people
former followers or families of
followers seeking at least 250 million
dollars for fraud he is countersued our
original report triggered investigations
by the FBI the IRS the Postal Service
and the Texas Attorney General's Office
Tilton first said that he'd be opened
with his records but then he got a
restraining order to keep the Texas
Attorney General's Office from obtaining
his records
however the Attorney General says he'll
continue his investigation and finally
in a deposition to the attorney
general's office
Tilton said that since the
investigations began and since our
broadcast his donations are down by as
much as one-third
you